# Overview

This is a Full Stack To Do List application utilizing the MERN (MongoDB, Express.js, React.js, Node.js) tech stack to seamlessly connect a React.js Frontend to a MongoDB cloud database, via a backend REST API built using Node and Express.js. The user is able to take full advantage of CRUD functionality where they can create a task for the To Do list, which will apepar in the list section of the application. Users can also update the task by clicking a check box to indicate that the task is complete. Additionally, the user is able to delete a task from the list by clicking a delete icon.
Users are also able to visually see indications of tasks being added, updated, and deleted from the database via toast notifications on the application's webpage.  


[Software Demo Video](https://youtu.be/LnN0Q4HwrKc)

# Cloud Database

The cloud database used in this application is MongoDB which is a NoSQL database. 

For this application, there is only one collection of documents in the test database. Each document within the tasks collection represents a task, and whether that task is complete. 

# Development Environment

This application was developed in Visual Studio code. 

Frameworks used: 
- Node.js
- Express.js
- Vite (Project creation framework for React.js)
- Mongoose (Object modeling and Database connection to MongoDB)

Additional Tooling: 
- MongoDB Compass (GUI used to view MongoDB clusters on your desktop)

# Useful Websites

{Make a list of websites that you found helpful in this project}

- [React.js Documentation](https://react.dev/learn)
- [MongoDB Website for DB Creation](www.mongodb.com)
- [Unsplash](unsplash.com) - Search for free use images (used in the background of this application)
- GitHub CoPilot: Claude Sonnett 3.5 Model (Built into Visual Studio Code)
    - The use of generative AI via GitHub CoPilot was solely as a peer reviewing tool to troubleshoot errors. Any code suggestions generated by GitHub CoPilot in the peer reviewing conversation were just that, suggestions, all code in this project was typed by the author. 

# Future Work

- Create a login page to allow for users to have access to a personalized 
- Extend the tasks documents to include a description and due dates to tasks
- Update the UI to include columns so the user can move tasks through creation, actively working, and completed tasks 